---
templateKey: plain-page
title: About CryptoPledge
---

## What is cryptocurrency?

A cryptocurrency is a digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses cryptography to secure its transactions, to control the creation of additional units, and to verify the transfer of assets.\[1] Different cryptocurrencies use different architectures -- whether a blockchain, DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) or something else -- and each one has its own unique impact. Still in their early stages, they promise a world powered by verifiable proofs.

## Why is cryptocurrency bad for the environment?

Cryptocurrencies rely on a network of computers (“miners”) to perform many calculations that verify transactions on the ledger. For currencies that use a blockchain ledger, for example, the first miner to verify a new block of transactions is rewarded with some number of coins in the currency, along with the transaction fees paid for the processed transactions.

Therefore, to try to earn as much as possible, miners produce as many calculations per second as possible, and consequently consume a lot of electricity.

Depending on which energy sources are used, the emissions produced by the mining network could be dangerously high. If miners in a network are running on, e.g., coal fuel rather than solar power or hydroelectricity, a single transaction could produce as much emission as taking a one hour Boeing 747-400 flight, driving a Hummer for 200 km.

Traditional currency exchange protocols require much less computational power and so consume much less power and produce less CO2 per transaction. Digiconomist estimates that a single Bitcoin transaction consumes more energy than 400,000 Visa transactions.

## How much electricity has been consumed by cryptocurrencies?

Digiconomist estimates that the Bitcoin network alone has consumed over 107 TW⋅h since it began, and that the Ethereum network has consumed over 8 TW⋅h.

## How much emissions has been generated by cryptocurrencies?

Digiconomist estimates that the Bitcoin network alone has produced 52.6 million tonnes of CO2 since it began, and that the Ethereum network has generated 57.5 million tonnes.
